My main motivation for taking this course is better understanding my past research and becoming a more skilled researcher in my current and future research. While I was an undergraduate at William & Mary, I conducted research with Dr. James Skelton and Dr. Michelle Jusino on the "ambrosia symbiosis" and how the mutualistic beetles and fungi may possibly impact wood decomposition rates in local angiosperm trees. I was also interested in how the introduction of ambrosia beetles may influence fungal species richness and fungal species composition in deadwood. Long story short, I sampled fungal DNA from experimental logs that were either in mesh bags to exclude ambrosia beetles or hung freely to allow ambrosia beetle colonization. To do this, I drilled into the wood to collect sawdust that I would extract DNA from, amplify fungal DNA using LSU and ITS primers, and send off for sequencing. Since I have no experience at all in bioinformatics, I relied on Michelle Jusino heavily to handle and make sense of the sequences. I want to be more confident in my own skills so that when I see these sequences I can at least think of the ways I can begin to tackle them. Also, having a grasp on bioinformatics will make communication about them easier. 

My primary goal for this course is to understand bioinformatics enough that I won’t be as intimidated to experiment and practice with the ideas we will learn from the course. Some researchers I have spoken with have described their journey into bioinformatics as largely self-taught, but that sounds really scary to me. I hope to get a good standing on bioinformatics so that I can more confidently make that jump. My other goal is to leave this course with ideas of how I can use bioinformatics myself for the research I am currently finishing and the research I will start for my master’s program. 

My plan of attack for learning this semester is practice, practice, and more practice. I am definitely more of a hands-on learner, so I will only learn this by doing. I found this especially true when I was learning calculus and would do practice problems on a small dry-erase board I would carry in my bookbag. I have already begun to dedicate blocks of time in my weekly schedule to practicing our course content. Keeping a calendar is especially important now that I have to balance my TA duties, research, and classes. 

There are many reasons why my folder structure is good for reproducible research. Having a folder dedicated to data is great, but having a folder for raw data and a separate folder for clean data is even better. This not only releases my data, but it shows what raw data I had and what I ended up with after cleaning it. This helps erase confusion and also ensure that I don’t mess up my raw data and accidentally pass it off as cleaned data. My scripts folder releases my code, so now someone can see what code I used. My log folder is my way of documenting all of my activities like I would do with a lab notebook. My config folder will document what the configurations on the programs or equipment I used. For example, I can list what version of R I used. My results folder makes sure that my findings are also reproducible. I can have each visual (image, table, or figure) be the output of a script. This ensures that someone can look in my results folder and use the same script I did. My docs folder will essentially serve as place for reference documents like research proposals, notes, explanations for choice of methods, interpretations, trouble-shooting efforts, etc. This keeps my research honest while also showing where things could have went wrong or eases the confusion of other researchers. 

We use documented code to do bioinformatics research tasks since it is the best form of documentation we have available to use. Both I and the biostatistician trying to reproduce my research will use a computer to conduct this task, so I can write my data for our computers while writing my code for humans. The computer will ultimately run the code, so this code needs to be written in a way that people can read it and computers can run it. I am essentially giving the computer instruction while giving the human explanations in a way that they can work together to reproduce what I did.  

I want to share with you that I am excited to learn from you this semester. I wish we had a class like this when I was an undergrad! 

